.\" manual page for the Debian GNU/Linux system originally written by
.\" sam@robots.org.uk Sam Morris
.\" define fallback URL and MTO macros 
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.\" the www.tmac package will provide better macros which will override those
.\" above if it is present
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH alephone 6 2010-12-07 source.bungie.org Games
.SH NAME
alephone \- game engine based on Marathon 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alephone
[
.I options
]
[
.I directory
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Aleph One is an open-source descendant of Bungie's Marathon 2 first-person
3D shooting game.
Aleph One runs Marathon 2, Marathon Infinity, and 3rd-party content
on a wide variety of platforms, with (optional) OpenGL rendering,
Internet play, Lua scripting, and more.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Allow saving of core files after crashes.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-fullscreen
Run the game fullscreen.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-windowed
Run the game in a window.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-nogl
Do not use OpenGL.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-nosound
Do not access the sound card.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-nogamma
Disable gamma table effects (menu fades).
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-nojoystick
Do not initialize joysticks.
.TP
.I directory
Directory containing the data files of a scenario (map file, scripts, etc.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ALEPHONE_DATA
Directories that are searched for data files.
This is a colon-separated list.
Entries
.I later
in the list have precedence over entries earlier in the list.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.alephone
Aleph One personalization directory.
Alephone stores preferences, game recordings, saved games, and screen
shots there.
If
.B ALEPHONE_DATA
is not set,
.B alephone
searches this directory for data files after searching the directory
given as its argument.
.SH BUGS
If
.B ALEPHONE_DATA
is set, the
.I directory
argument is ignored.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The latest news regarding engine and scenario development can be found at
.URL "http://source.bungie.org/" "the project web site" "."
